Docs for Screen facade (#45)
NativePHP/nativephp.com: resources/views/docs/1/the-basics/screens.md

---
title: Screens
order: 850
---
# Screens

The `Screen` facade lets you get information about the screens currently connected to the computer.

```php
use Native\Laravel\Facades\Screen;
```

## Displays

The `displays` method gives you an array of information about all the displays actually used.

The Display object represents a physical display connected to the system. A fake display may exist on a headless system, or a display may correspond to a remote, virtual display. If you use an external display with your laptop screen closed, the internal screen of your laptop will not be part of the array.

> See [Display object](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/api/structures/display) documentation.

Reviewer: You can leave this here for now, but I'm wary of linking out to external docs for a couple of reasons:

1. They may change in ways that we're not aware of
2. It becomes more complicated as we move to supporting more drivers, e.g. Tauri

Author: Yes, I thought of that, but since in this current version we basically send the same exact structure as Electron without touching it, I thought it would be a more accurate explanation for each element of the array.

For Tauri, I imagine that it will not come before 2.0 and that we could change the docs when the time comes.

Author: Also, I didn't see any JavaScript or Rust API for screens, even in 2.0 RC.

Author: Oh, I see, the core is already spliced into different plugins. It doesn't seem to have this plugin yet. I did see a plugin to remember the last position of the windows, which is good.

```php

> $screens = Screen::displays();

Reviewer: Perhaps add a sample of the output here?

Author: It's a pretty massive array that's why I preferred linking to Electron. I can still put a var_export() example.

Reviewer: 👍🏼

Or just the relevant parts that help you demonstrate the example, whilst indicating there's more to discover, eg:

```php
// [
//     'relevantKeys' => 'exampleValue',
//     ...
// ]
```

```

The screen bounds are the desktop area that the screen covers. The `x` and `y` values are the top-left corner of the screen relative to the primary display, and the `width` and `height` values are the width and height of the screen.

> Example to found out in what screen the window is located:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use this to find out which screen a particular window is located on:
```

```php
function getCurrentScreen()
{
    $screens = Screen::displays();
    $window = Window::current();

    foreach ($screens as $screen) {
        $bounds = $screen['bounds'];
        if ($window->x >= $bounds['x'] && $window->x <= $bounds['x'] + $bounds['width'] && $window->y >= $bounds['y'] && $window->y <= $bounds['y'] + $bounds['height']) {
            return $screen;
        }
    }

    return null;
}

> ```

Reviewer: I think this should be a helper included in NativePHP - feels like a pretty common problem to solve with a consistent solution that would be widely applicable.

Would also make a great PR 😉

Reviewer: These sound great 👍🏼

Author: I will try to put another PR next week then!

## Cursor position

The `cursorPosition` method gives you the coordinates of the current absolute position of the mouse cursor.

> The position of the cursor is relative to the top-left corner of the primary display. So if your external display is on the right of your laptop screen, the `x` value will be negative.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The position of the cursor is relative to the top-left corner of the primary display. These values can be
negative as well as positive.

For example, a secondary display may be oriented by your system to the right of your primary display.
If your mouse cursor is on the secondary display when calling `Screen::cursorPosition()`, the `x` value will be a negative integer.
```

Reviewer: In fact, I would add these 2 paragraphs _after_ the code demo.

```php
$position = Screen::cursorPosition();

$position->x

> $position->y

Reviewer: Replace with a sample of the output
